src/iwd.config.rst, before:

============
 iwd.config
============

--------------------------------------
Configuration file for wireless daemon
--------------------------------------

:Author: Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
:Author: Denis Kenzior <denkenz@gmail.com>
:Author: Andrew Zaborowski <andrew.zaborowski@intel.com>
:Author: Tim Kourt <tim.a.kourt@linux.intel.com>
:Author: James Prestwood <prestwoj@gmail.com>
:Copyright: 2013-2019 Intel Corporation
:Version: iwd
:Date: 22 September 2019
:Manual section: 5
:Manual group: Linux Connectivity

SYNOPSIS
========

Configuration file **main.conf**

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *main.conf* configuration file configures the system-wide settings for
**iwd**.  This file lives in the configuration directory specified by the
environment variable *$CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY*, which is normally provided
by **systemd**.  In the absence of such an environment variable it defaults
to */etc/iwd*.  If no *main.conf* is present, then default values are
chosen.  The presence of *main.conf* is not required.

FILE FORMAT
===========

See *iwd.network* for details on the file format.

SETTINGS
========

The settings are split into several categories.  Each category has a group
associated with it and described in separate tables below.

General Settings
----------------

The group ``[General]`` contains general settings.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - EnableNetworkConfiguration
     - Values: true, **false**

       Enable network configuration.

       Setting this option to *true* enables **iwd** to configure the network
       interfaces with the IP addresses.  There are two types IP addressing
       supported by **iwd**: static and dynamic.  The static IP addresses are
       configured through the network configuration files.  If no static IP
       configuration has been provided for a network, **iwd** will attempt to
       obtain the dynamic addresses from the network through the built-in
       DHCP client.

       This also enables network configuration and the DHCP server when in AP
       mode and the AP profile being activated does not override it.

       The network configuration feature is disabled by default.  See
       ``[Network]`` settings for additional settings related to network
       configuration.

   * - UseDefaultInterface (**deprecated**)
     - Values: true, **false**

       Do not allow **iwd** to destroy / recreate wireless interfaces at
       startup, including default interfaces.  Enable this behavior if your
       wireless card driver is buggy or does not allow such an operation, or
       if you do not want **iwd** to manage netdevs for another reason.  For
       most users with an upstream driver it should be safe to omit/disable
       this setting.

       This setting is deprecated, please use [DriverQuirks].DefaultInterface
       instead.

   * - AddressRandomization
     - Values: **disabled**, once, network

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``disabled``, the default kernel
       behavior is used.  This means the kernel will assign a mac address from
       the permanent mac address range provided by the hardware / driver.  Thus
       it is possible for networks to track the user by the mac address which
       is permanent.

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``once``, MAC address is
       randomized a single time when **iwd** starts or when the hardware is
       detected for the first time (due to hotplug, etc.)

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``network``, the MAC address is
       randomized on each connection to a network. The MAC is generated based on
       the SSID and permanent address of the adapter. This allows the same MAC
       to be generated each time connecting to a given SSID while still hiding
       the permanent address.

   * - AddressRandomizationRange
     - Values: **full**, nic

       One can control which part of the address is randomized using this
       setting.

       When using ``AddressRandomizationRange`` set to ``nic``, only the NIC
       specific octets (last 3 octets) are randomized.  Note that the
       randomization range is limited to 00:00:01 to 00:00:FE.  The permanent
       mac address of the card is used for the initial 3 octets.

       When using ``AddressRandomizationRange`` set to ``full``, all 6 octets
       of the address are randomized.  The locally-administered bit will be
       set.

   * - RoamThreshold
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to 1, default: **-70**

       This value can be used to control how aggressively **iwd** roams when
       connected to a 2.4GHz access point.

   * - RoamThreshold5G
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to 1, default: **-76**

       This value can be used to control how aggressively **iwd** roams when
       connected to a 5GHz access point.

   * - CriticalRoamThreshold
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to -1, default: **-80**

       The threshold (for 2.4GHz) at which IWD will roam regardless of the
       affinity set to the current BSS. If the connected BSS has affinity
       (set in Station's Affinities list) the roam threshold will be lowed to
       this value and IWD will not attempt to roam (or roam scan) until either
       the affinity is cleared, or the signal drops below this threshold.


   * - CriticalRoamThreshold5G
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to -1, default: **-82**

       This has the same effect as ``CriticalRoamThreshold``, but for the 5GHz
       band.

   * - RoamRetryInterval
     - Value: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **60**)

       Specifies how long **iwd** will wait before attempting to roam again if
       the last roam attempt failed, or if the signal of the newly connected BSS
       is still considered weak.

   * - ManagementFrameProtection
     - Values: 0, **1** or 2

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``0``, MFP is completely turned
       off, even if the hardware is capable.  This setting is not recommended.

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``1``, MFP is enabled if the local
       hardware and remote AP both support it.

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``2``, MFP is always required.
       This can prevent successful connection establishment on some hardware or
       to some networks.

   * - ControlPortOverNL80211
     - Values: false, **true**

       Enable/Disable sending EAPoL packets over NL80211.  Enabled by default
       if kernel support is available.  Doing so sends all EAPoL traffic over
       directly to the supplicant process (**iwd**) instead of putting these on
       the Ethernet device.  Since only the supplicant can usually make
       sense / decrypt these packets, enabling this option can save some CPU
       cycles on your system and avoids certain long-standing race conditions.

   * - DisableANQP
     - Values: false, **true**

       Enable/disable ANQP queries. The way IWD does ANQP queries is dependent
       on a recent kernel patch (available in Kernel 5.3). If your kernel does
       not have this functionality this should be disabled (default).  Some
       drivers also do a terrible job of sending public action frames
       (freezing or crashes) which is another reason why this has been turned
       off by default.  If you want to easily utilize Hotspot 2.0 networks,
       then setting ``DisableANQP`` to ``false`` is recommended.

   * - DisableOCV
     - Value: **false**, true

       Disable Operating Channel Validation. Support for this is not advertised
       by the kernel so if kernels/drivers exist which don't support OCV it can
       be disabled here.

   * - SystemdEncrypt

       **Warning: This is a highly experimental feature**
     - Value: Systemd key ID

       Enables network profile encryption using a systemd provided secret key.
       Once enabled all PSK/8021x network profiles will be encrypted
       automatically. Once the profile is encrypted there is no way of going
       back using IWD alone. A tool, **iwd-decrypt-profile**, is provided
       assuming the secret is known which will decrypt a profile. This
       decrypted profile could manually be set to /var/lib/iwd to 'undo' any
       profile encryption, but its going to be a manual process.

       Setting up systemd to provide the secret is left up to the user as IWD
       has no way of performing this automatically. The systemd options
       required are LoadCredentialEncrypted or SetCredentialEncrypted, and the
       secret identifier should be named whatever SystemdEncrypt is set to.

   * - Country
     - Value: Country Code (ISO Alpha-2)

       Requests the country be set for the system. Note that setting this is
       simply a **request** to set the country, and does not guarantee the
       country will be set. For a self-managed wiphy it is never possible to set
       the country from userspace. For other devices any regulatory domain
       request is just a 'hint' and ultimately left up to the kernel to set the
       country.

   * - DisablePMKSA
     - Value: **false**, true

       Disable PMKSA support in IWD

Network
-------

The group ``[Network]`` contains network configuration related settings.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - EnableIPv6
     - Values: **true**, false

       Sets the global default that tells **iwd** whether it should configure
       IPv6 addresses and routes (either provided via static settings,
       Router Advertisements or DHCPv6 protocol).  This setting is enabled
       by default.  This setting can also be overridden on a per-network basis.

   * - NameResolvingService
     - Values: resolvconf, **systemd**, none

       Configures a DNS resolution method used by the system.

       This configuration option must be used in conjunction with
       ``EnableNetworkConfiguration`` and provides the choice of system
       resolver integration.

       If not specified, ``systemd`` is used as default.

       If ``none`` is specified, then DNS and domain name information is
       ignored.

   * - RoutePriorityOffset
     - Values: uint32 value (default: **300**)

       Configures a route priority offset used by the system to prioritize
       the default routes. The route with lower priority offset is preferred.

       If not specified, ``300`` is used as default.

Blacklist
---------

The group ``[Blacklist]`` contains settings related to blacklisting of BSSes.
If **iwd** determines that a connection to a BSS fails for a reason that
indicates the BSS is currently misbehaving or misconfigured (e.g. timeouts,
unexpected status/reason codes, etc), then **iwd** will blacklist this BSS
and avoid connecting to it for a period of time.  These options let the user
control how long a misbehaved BSS spends on the blacklist.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - InitialTimeout
     - Values: uint64 value in seconds (default: **60**)

       The initial time that a BSS spends on the blacklist. Setting this to zero
       will disable blacklisting functionality in IWD.
   * - Multiplier
     - Values: unsigned int value greater than zero, in seconds
       (default: **30**)

       If the BSS was blacklisted previously and another connection attempt
       has failed after the initial timeout has expired, then the BSS blacklist
       time will be extended by a multiple of *Multiplier* for each
       unsuccessful attempt up to *MaxiumTimeout* time in seconds.
   * - MaximumTimeout
     - Values: uint64 value in seconds (default: **86400**)

       Maximum time that a BSS is blacklisted.

Rank
----

The group ``[Rank]`` contains settings related to ranking of networks for
autoconnect purposes.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - BandModifier2_4GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 2.4GHz access points by
       increasing or decreasing the value of this modifier.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 2.4GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - BandModifier5GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 5GHz access points by increasing
       or decreasing the value of this modifier.  5GHz networks are already
       preferred due to their increase throughput / data rate.  However, 5GHz
       networks are highly RSSI sensitive, so it is still possible for IWD to
       prefer 2.4GHz APs in certain circumstances.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 5GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - BandModifier6GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 6GHz access points by increasing
       or decreasing the value of this modifier.  Since 6GHz networks are highly
       RSSI sensitive, this gives an option to prefer 6GHz APs over 5GHz APs.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 6GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - HighUtilizationThreshold
     - Values: unsigned integer value 0 - 255 (default: **0**, disabled)

       **Warning: This is an experimental feature**

       The BSS utilization threshold at which a negative rank factor begins to
       be applied to the BSS. As the load increases for a BSS the ranking factor
       decays exponentially, meaning the ranking factor will decrease
       exponentially. Setting this can have very drastic effects on the BSS rank
       if its utilization is high, use with care.

   * - HighStationCountThreshold
     - Values: unsigned integer value 0 - 255 (default: **0**, disabled)

       **Warning: This is an experimental feature**

       The BSS station count threshold at which a negative rank factor begins to
       be applied to the BSS. As the station count increases for a BSS the
       ranking factor decays exponentially, meaning the ranking factor will
       decrease exponentially. Setting this can have very drastic effects on the
       BSS rank if its station count is high, use with care.

Scan
----

The group ``[Scan]`` contains settings related to scanning functionality.
No modification from defaults is normally required.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - DisablePeriodicScan
     - Values: true, **false**

       Disable periodic scan. Setting this option to 'true' will prevent
       **iwd** from issuing the periodic scans for the available networks while
       disconnected.  The behavior of the user-initiated scans isn't affected.
       The periodic scan is enabled by default.

   * - InitialPeriodicScanInterval
     - Values: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **10**)

       The initial periodic scan interval upon disconnect.

   * - MaximumPeriodicScanInterval
     - Values: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **300**)

       The maximum periodic scan interval.

   * - DisableRoamingScan
     - Values: true, **false**

       Disable roaming scan. Setting this option to 'true' will prevent **iwd**
       from trying to scan when roaming decisions are activated.  This can
       prevent **iwd** from roaming properly, but can be useful for networks
       operating under extremely low rssi levels where roaming isn't possible.

IPv4
----

The group ``[IPv4]`` contains settings related to IPv4 network configuration.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - APAddressPool
     - Values: comma-separated list of prefix-notation IP strings

       Defines the space of IPs used for the Access Point-mode subnet addresses
       and the DHCP server.  Defaults to 192.168.0.0/16.  The prefix length
       decides the size of the pool from which an address is selected but the
       actual subnet size (netmask) is based on the AP profile being activated
       and defaults to 28 bits.  The AP profile's ``[IPv4].Address`` setting
       overrides the global value set here.  Setting a too small address space
       will limit the number of access points that can be running
       simultaneously on different interfaces.

DriverQuirks
------------

The group ``[DriverQuirks]`` contains special flags associated with drivers that
are buggy or just don't behave similar enough to the majority of other drivers.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - DefaultInterface
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list IWD will not attempt to
       remove and re-create the default interface.

   * - ForcePae
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list ControlPortOverNL80211 will
       not be used, and PAE will be used instead. Some drivers do not properly
       support ControlPortOverNL80211 even though they advertise support for it.

   * - PowerSaveDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in user matches one in this list power save will be disabled.

   * - MulticastRxDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list, multicast RX will be
       disabled.

   * - SaeDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list, SAE/WPA3 will be disabled
       for connections. This will prevent connections to WPA3-only networks, but
       will allow for connections to WPA3/WPA2 hybrid networks by utilizing
       WPA2.

SEE ALSO
========

iwd(8), iwd.network(5)

Commit message:

wiphy: non-LAA mac randomization
Add a secondary option to `AddressRandomizationRange` to not set the
locally-administered bit of `full` randomized MAC addresses. This
allows randomizing MAC addresses to not appear as Locally
Administered Addresses (LAA). Currently, there is no way to avoid
having this bit set other than setting `AddressRandomizationRange`
to `nic`, which undesirably copies the entire OUI and only randomizes
the last 3 octets.

src/iwd.config.rst, after:

============
 iwd.config
============

--------------------------------------
Configuration file for wireless daemon
--------------------------------------

:Author: Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
:Author: Denis Kenzior <denkenz@gmail.com>
:Author: Andrew Zaborowski <andrew.zaborowski@intel.com>
:Author: Tim Kourt <tim.a.kourt@linux.intel.com>
:Author: James Prestwood <prestwoj@gmail.com>
:Copyright: 2013-2019 Intel Corporation
:Version: iwd
:Date: 22 September 2019
:Manual section: 5
:Manual group: Linux Connectivity

SYNOPSIS
========

Configuration file **main.conf**

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *main.conf* configuration file configures the system-wide settings for
**iwd**.  This file lives in the configuration directory specified by the
environment variable *$CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY*, which is normally provided
by **systemd**.  In the absence of such an environment variable it defaults
to */etc/iwd*.  If no *main.conf* is present, then default values are
chosen.  The presence of *main.conf* is not required.

FILE FORMAT
===========

See *iwd.network* for details on the file format.

SETTINGS
========

The settings are split into several categories.  Each category has a group
associated with it and described in separate tables below.

General Settings
----------------

The group ``[General]`` contains general settings.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - EnableNetworkConfiguration
     - Values: true, **false**

       Enable network configuration.

       Setting this option to *true* enables **iwd** to configure the network
       interfaces with the IP addresses.  There are two types IP addressing
       supported by **iwd**: static and dynamic.  The static IP addresses are
       configured through the network configuration files.  If no static IP
       configuration has been provided for a network, **iwd** will attempt to
       obtain the dynamic addresses from the network through the built-in
       DHCP client.

       This also enables network configuration and the DHCP server when in AP
       mode and the AP profile being activated does not override it.

       The network configuration feature is disabled by default.  See
       ``[Network]`` settings for additional settings related to network
       configuration.

   * - UseDefaultInterface (**deprecated**)
     - Values: true, **false**

       Do not allow **iwd** to destroy / recreate wireless interfaces at
       startup, including default interfaces.  Enable this behavior if your
       wireless card driver is buggy or does not allow such an operation, or
       if you do not want **iwd** to manage netdevs for another reason.  For
       most users with an upstream driver it should be safe to omit/disable
       this setting.

       This setting is deprecated, please use [DriverQuirks].DefaultInterface
       instead.

   * - AddressRandomization
     - Values: **disabled**, once, network

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``disabled``, the default kernel
       behavior is used.  This means the kernel will assign a mac address from
       the permanent mac address range provided by the hardware / driver.  Thus
       it is possible for networks to track the user by the mac address which
       is permanent.

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``once``, MAC address is
       randomized a single time when **iwd** starts or when the hardware is
       detected for the first time (due to hotplug, etc.)

       If ``AddressRandomization`` is set to ``network``, the MAC address is
       randomized on each connection to a network. The MAC is generated based on
       the SSID and permanent address of the adapter. This allows the same MAC
       to be generated each time connecting to a given SSID while still hiding
       the permanent address.

   * - AddressRandomizationRange
     - Values: **full**, full-uaa, nic

       One can control which part of the address is randomized using this
       setting.

       When using ``AddressRandomizationRange`` set to ``nic``, only the NIC
       specific octets (last 3 octets) are randomized.  Note that the
       randomization range is limited to 00:00:01 to 00:00:FE.  The permanent
       mac address of the card is used for the initial 3 octets.

       When using ``AddressRandomizationRange`` set to ``full``, all 6 octets
       of the address are randomized.  The locally-administered bit will be
       set, and multicast bit will be cleared.

       When using ``AddressRandomizationRange`` set to ``full-uaa``, all 6
       octets of the address are randomized. The locally-administered and
       multicast bits will be cleared.

   * - RoamThreshold
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to 1, default: **-70**

       This value can be used to control how aggressively **iwd** roams when
       connected to a 2.4GHz access point.

   * - RoamThreshold5G
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to 1, default: **-76**

       This value can be used to control how aggressively **iwd** roams when
       connected to a 5GHz access point.

   * - CriticalRoamThreshold
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to -1, default: **-80**

       The threshold (for 2.4GHz) at which IWD will roam regardless of the
       affinity set to the current BSS. If the connected BSS has affinity
       (set in Station's Affinities list) the roam threshold will be lowed to
       this value and IWD will not attempt to roam (or roam scan) until either
       the affinity is cleared, or the signal drops below this threshold.


   * - CriticalRoamThreshold5G
     - Value: rssi dBm value, from -100 to -1, default: **-82**

       This has the same effect as ``CriticalRoamThreshold``, but for the 5GHz
       band.

   * - RoamRetryInterval
     - Value: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **60**)

       Specifies how long **iwd** will wait before attempting to roam again if
       the last roam attempt failed, or if the signal of the newly connected BSS
       is still considered weak.

   * - ManagementFrameProtection
     - Values: 0, **1** or 2

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``0``, MFP is completely turned
       off, even if the hardware is capable.  This setting is not recommended.

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``1``, MFP is enabled if the local
       hardware and remote AP both support it.

       When ``ManagementFrameProtection`` is ``2``, MFP is always required.
       This can prevent successful connection establishment on some hardware or
       to some networks.

   * - ControlPortOverNL80211
     - Values: false, **true**

       Enable/Disable sending EAPoL packets over NL80211.  Enabled by default
       if kernel support is available.  Doing so sends all EAPoL traffic over
       directly to the supplicant process (**iwd**) instead of putting these on
       the Ethernet device.  Since only the supplicant can usually make
       sense / decrypt these packets, enabling this option can save some CPU
       cycles on your system and avoids certain long-standing race conditions.

   * - DisableANQP
     - Values: false, **true**

       Enable/disable ANQP queries. The way IWD does ANQP queries is dependent
       on a recent kernel patch (available in Kernel 5.3). If your kernel does
       not have this functionality this should be disabled (default).  Some
       drivers also do a terrible job of sending public action frames
       (freezing or crashes) which is another reason why this has been turned
       off by default.  If you want to easily utilize Hotspot 2.0 networks,
       then setting ``DisableANQP`` to ``false`` is recommended.

   * - DisableOCV
     - Value: **false**, true

       Disable Operating Channel Validation. Support for this is not advertised
       by the kernel so if kernels/drivers exist which don't support OCV it can
       be disabled here.

   * - SystemdEncrypt

       **Warning: This is a highly experimental feature**
     - Value: Systemd key ID

       Enables network profile encryption using a systemd provided secret key.
       Once enabled all PSK/8021x network profiles will be encrypted
       automatically. Once the profile is encrypted there is no way of going
       back using IWD alone. A tool, **iwd-decrypt-profile**, is provided
       assuming the secret is known which will decrypt a profile. This
       decrypted profile could manually be set to /var/lib/iwd to 'undo' any
       profile encryption, but its going to be a manual process.

       Setting up systemd to provide the secret is left up to the user as IWD
       has no way of performing this automatically. The systemd options
       required are LoadCredentialEncrypted or SetCredentialEncrypted, and the
       secret identifier should be named whatever SystemdEncrypt is set to.

   * - Country
     - Value: Country Code (ISO Alpha-2)

       Requests the country be set for the system. Note that setting this is
       simply a **request** to set the country, and does not guarantee the
       country will be set. For a self-managed wiphy it is never possible to set
       the country from userspace. For other devices any regulatory domain
       request is just a 'hint' and ultimately left up to the kernel to set the
       country.

   * - DisablePMKSA
     - Value: **false**, true

       Disable PMKSA support in IWD

Network
-------

The group ``[Network]`` contains network configuration related settings.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - EnableIPv6
     - Values: **true**, false

       Sets the global default that tells **iwd** whether it should configure
       IPv6 addresses and routes (either provided via static settings,
       Router Advertisements or DHCPv6 protocol).  This setting is enabled
       by default.  This setting can also be overridden on a per-network basis.

   * - NameResolvingService
     - Values: resolvconf, **systemd**, none

       Configures a DNS resolution method used by the system.

       This configuration option must be used in conjunction with
       ``EnableNetworkConfiguration`` and provides the choice of system
       resolver integration.

       If not specified, ``systemd`` is used as default.

       If ``none`` is specified, then DNS and domain name information is
       ignored.

   * - RoutePriorityOffset
     - Values: uint32 value (default: **300**)

       Configures a route priority offset used by the system to prioritize
       the default routes. The route with lower priority offset is preferred.

       If not specified, ``300`` is used as default.

Blacklist
---------

The group ``[Blacklist]`` contains settings related to blacklisting of BSSes.
If **iwd** determines that a connection to a BSS fails for a reason that
indicates the BSS is currently misbehaving or misconfigured (e.g. timeouts,
unexpected status/reason codes, etc), then **iwd** will blacklist this BSS
and avoid connecting to it for a period of time.  These options let the user
control how long a misbehaved BSS spends on the blacklist.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - InitialTimeout
     - Values: uint64 value in seconds (default: **60**)

       The initial time that a BSS spends on the blacklist. Setting this to zero
       will disable blacklisting functionality in IWD.
   * - Multiplier
     - Values: unsigned int value greater than zero, in seconds
       (default: **30**)

       If the BSS was blacklisted previously and another connection attempt
       has failed after the initial timeout has expired, then the BSS blacklist
       time will be extended by a multiple of *Multiplier* for each
       unsuccessful attempt up to *MaxiumTimeout* time in seconds.
   * - MaximumTimeout
     - Values: uint64 value in seconds (default: **86400**)

       Maximum time that a BSS is blacklisted.

Rank
----

The group ``[Rank]`` contains settings related to ranking of networks for
autoconnect purposes.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - BandModifier2_4GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 2.4GHz access points by
       increasing or decreasing the value of this modifier.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 2.4GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - BandModifier5GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 5GHz access points by increasing
       or decreasing the value of this modifier.  5GHz networks are already
       preferred due to their increase throughput / data rate.  However, 5GHz
       networks are highly RSSI sensitive, so it is still possible for IWD to
       prefer 2.4GHz APs in certain circumstances.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 5GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - BandModifier6GHz
     - Values: floating point value (default: **1.0**)

       Increase or decrease the preference for 6GHz access points by increasing
       or decreasing the value of this modifier.  Since 6GHz networks are highly
       RSSI sensitive, this gives an option to prefer 6GHz APs over 5GHz APs.

       A value of 0.0 will disable the 6GHz band and prevent scanning or
       connecting on those frequencies.

   * - HighUtilizationThreshold
     - Values: unsigned integer value 0 - 255 (default: **0**, disabled)

       **Warning: This is an experimental feature**

       The BSS utilization threshold at which a negative rank factor begins to
       be applied to the BSS. As the load increases for a BSS the ranking factor
       decays exponentially, meaning the ranking factor will decrease
       exponentially. Setting this can have very drastic effects on the BSS rank
       if its utilization is high, use with care.

   * - HighStationCountThreshold
     - Values: unsigned integer value 0 - 255 (default: **0**, disabled)

       **Warning: This is an experimental feature**

       The BSS station count threshold at which a negative rank factor begins to
       be applied to the BSS. As the station count increases for a BSS the
       ranking factor decays exponentially, meaning the ranking factor will
       decrease exponentially. Setting this can have very drastic effects on the
       BSS rank if its station count is high, use with care.

Scan
----

The group ``[Scan]`` contains settings related to scanning functionality.
No modification from defaults is normally required.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - DisablePeriodicScan
     - Values: true, **false**

       Disable periodic scan. Setting this option to 'true' will prevent
       **iwd** from issuing the periodic scans for the available networks while
       disconnected.  The behavior of the user-initiated scans isn't affected.
       The periodic scan is enabled by default.

   * - InitialPeriodicScanInterval
     - Values: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **10**)

       The initial periodic scan interval upon disconnect.

   * - MaximumPeriodicScanInterval
     - Values: unsigned int value in seconds (default: **300**)

       The maximum periodic scan interval.

   * - DisableRoamingScan
     - Values: true, **false**

       Disable roaming scan. Setting this option to 'true' will prevent **iwd**
       from trying to scan when roaming decisions are activated.  This can
       prevent **iwd** from roaming properly, but can be useful for networks
       operating under extremely low rssi levels where roaming isn't possible.

IPv4
----

The group ``[IPv4]`` contains settings related to IPv4 network configuration.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - APAddressPool
     - Values: comma-separated list of prefix-notation IP strings

       Defines the space of IPs used for the Access Point-mode subnet addresses
       and the DHCP server.  Defaults to 192.168.0.0/16.  The prefix length
       decides the size of the pool from which an address is selected but the
       actual subnet size (netmask) is based on the AP profile being activated
       and defaults to 28 bits.  The AP profile's ``[IPv4].Address`` setting
       overrides the global value set here.  Setting a too small address space
       will limit the number of access points that can be running
       simultaneously on different interfaces.

DriverQuirks
------------

The group ``[DriverQuirks]`` contains special flags associated with drivers that
are buggy or just don't behave similar enough to the majority of other drivers.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :stub-columns: 0
   :widths: 20 80
   :align: left

   * - DefaultInterface
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list IWD will not attempt to
       remove and re-create the default interface.

   * - ForcePae
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list ControlPortOverNL80211 will
       not be used, and PAE will be used instead. Some drivers do not properly
       support ControlPortOverNL80211 even though they advertise support for it.

   * - PowerSaveDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in user matches one in this list power save will be disabled.

   * - MulticastRxDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list, multicast RX will be
       disabled.

   * - SaeDisable
     - Values: comma-separated list of drivers or glob matches

       If a driver in use matches one in this list, SAE/WPA3 will be disabled
       for connections. This will prevent connections to WPA3-only networks, but
       will allow for connections to WPA3/WPA2 hybrid networks by utilizing
       WPA2.

SEE ALSO
========

iwd(8), iwd.network(5)
